# Lean Configuration Management
- Thoughtworks.

## Enterprise projects
- Business have an idea.
- Eng build something.
- Deployed.
- Eng disbanded/reassigned.
- IT Ops run things forever.

## Agile! Oh no!
- Business has to talk to engineers.
- IT ops end up receiving stuff more often.
   - I know! Change management!

"The job of the change management process is to make sure that nothing ever changes."

## IT performance
- http://bit.ly/2014-devops-report

## Predictors of IT performance
- Peer reviewed change process (stability) - don't need change management.
- Version control everything.
- Proactive monitoring.
- High trust organisational culture.
   - Westrum, "A Typology of Organizational Cultures"

### Lead time
- MTTR?
- How quickly can I get a critical fix to users?
- How quickly can I validate if a feature is valuable?

### A/B testing
- 1/3 of experiments actually improve the key metric.

### Infrastructure as code
- Can you rebuild production based on version control? How fast?

### CI
- Jason Leyba Google Test automation.

### Build quality in
- W. Edwards Deming.


## Architecture
Success on the web depends on continuous deployment of reliable software to an unreliable platform that scales horizontally. --@jesserobbins

http://bit.ly/16S5yTn

Resilience, security, scalability, deployability, testability are architectural
concerns.

Release It! Design and Deploy Production Ready Software

Yegge Platform rant.

## Organisation
- Treat your production services as actual products.
- The structure doesn't matter; how people react and behave is the most
  important thing.
- AWS was initially an external offering.

To read: http://glinden.blogspot.co.uk/2006/04/early-amazon-shopping-cart.html
